INDEPENDENT CONTRACTOR AGREEMENT  
 
THIS INDEPENDENT CONTRACTOR AGREEMENT (the “Agreement ”) is dated this _______ day 
of _________, _______.   
 
Client:  XXXXXX (Dadri, Uttar Pradesh, India) ("Client")   
Contractor:   Vinayak Singh, nexCRAFT (Bennett University, Greater Noida, Uttar Pradesh, 
India) ("Contractor")   
 
BACKGROUND  
A. The Client is of the opinion that the Contractor has the necessary qualifications, 
experience, and abilities to provide services to the Client.   
B. The Contractor is  agreeable to providing such services to the Client on the terms and 
conditions set out in this Agreement.   
 
IN CONSIDERATION OF the matters described above and the mutual benefits and obligations 
set forth in this Agreement, the receipt and sufficiency o f which consideration is hereby 
acknowledged, the Client and the Contractor (individually the "Party" and collectively the 
"Parties" to this Agreement) agree as follows:   
 
SERVICES PROVIDED  
1. The Client hereby agrees to engage the Contractor to provide t he Client with the following 
services (the "Services"):   
   - website designing  
   - Website development. (all the features included)  
   - Website hosting and deployment.    
2. The Services will also include any other tasks which the Parties may agree on. The 
Contractor hereby agrees to provide such Services to the Client.   
 
TERM OF AGREEMENT  3. The term of this Agreement (the "Term") will begin on the date of this Agreement and will 
remain in full force and effect until the completion of the Services, subject to earlier 
termination as provided in this Agreement. The Term may be extended with the written 
consent of the Parties.   
 
PERFORMANCE  
4. The Parties agree to do everyth ing necessary to ensure that the terms of this Agreement 
take effect.   
 
CURRENCY  
5. Except as otherwise provided in this Agreement, all monetary amounts referred to in this 
Agreement are in INR (Indian Rupees)  and will be transferred to contractor in onli ne mode .   
 
PAYMENT  
6. The Contractor will charge the Client a flat fee of ₹ XXXXX  for the Services, excluding the 
cost of hosting space (the "Payment"). The full Payment for the Services must be made to 
the Contractor by 10th January . 
7. The Client has requested the Contractor to manage the hosting space for the project. 
For this purpose, the Client will provide the Contractor with an additional amount of 
₹20,000.00, separate from the service charge. This amount must be paid to the 
Contractor before the date the Client wants the site to go live.  
8. Any remaining balance from the ₹ XXXXXXX provided for hosting will be transferred 
back to the Client. Conversely, if the hosting costs exceed ₹20,000.00, the Client will 
transfer the additional required amount to t he Contractor. A proper bill for hosting 
expenses will be provided to the Client.  
9. The Client will be responsible for purchasing and providing access to the hosting 
space required for the project if the Contractor is not managing it.  
10. The Client will be invo iced when the Services are complete.  
11. Invoices submitted by the Contractor to the Client are due upon receipt.  
12. In the event that this Agreement is terminated by the Client prior to completion of 
the Services but where the Services have been partially perfor med, the Contractor 
will be entitled to pro -rata payment of the Payment to the date of termination, 
provided that there has been no breach of contract on the part of the Contractor.  13. The entire project, including all deliverables, will be transferred to the  Client only 
after the full Payment for Services ( XXXXXXX ) is made.  
 
REIMBURSEMENT OF EXPENSES  
12. The Contractor will be reimbursed from time to time for reasonable and necessary 
expenses incurred by the Contractor in connection with providing the Service s.   
13. All expenses must be pre -approved by the Client.   
 
CONFIDENTIALITY   
14. Confidential information (the "Confidential Information") refers to any data or 
information relating to the business of the Client which would reasonably be considered to 
be proprietary to the Client including, but not limited to, accounting records, business 
processes, and client records and that is not generally known in the industry of the Client 
and where the release of that Confidential Information could reasonably be ex pected to 
cause harm to the Client.   
15. The Contractor agrees that they will not disclose, divulge, reveal, report, or use, for any 
purpose, any Confidential Information which the Contractor has obtained, except as 
authorized by the Client or as required  by law. The obligations of confidentiality will apply 
during the Term and will survive indefinitely upon termination of this Agreement.   
 
 
OWNERSHIP OF INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY  
16. All intellectual property and related material, including any trade secrets,  moral rights, 
goodwill, relevant registrations or applications for registration, and rights in any patent, 
copyright, trademark, trade dress, industrial design, and trade name (the "Intellectual 
Property") that is developed or produced under this Agreemen t will be the sole property of 
the Client. The use of the Intellectual Property by the Client will not be restricted in any 
manner.   
17. The Contractor may not use the Intellectual Property for any purpose other than that 
contracted for in this Agreement except with the written consent of the Client. The 
Contractor will be responsible for any and all damages resulting from the unauthorized use 
of the Intellectual Property.   
 
TRANSFER OF PROJECT  18. The entire project, including all deliverables, documenta tion, and intellectual property, 
will be transferred to the Client only when:   
   - The project is complete, and   
   - Full payment of the Payment has been made to the Contractor.   
 
RETURN OF PROPERTY  
19. Upon the expiry or termination of this Agreement, the Contractor will return to the 
Client any property, documentation, records, or Confidential Information which is the 
property of the Client.   
 
RIGHT OF SUBSTITUTION  
20. Except as otherwise provided in this Agreement, the Contractor may, at the Contractor's 
absolute discretion, engage a third -party sub -contractor to perform some or all of the 
obligations of the Contractor under this Agreement.   
21. In the event that t he Contractor hires a sub -contractor:   
   a. The Contractor will pay the sub -contractor for its services, and the Compensation will 
remain payable by the Client to the Contractor.   
   b. For the purposes of the indemnification clause of this Agreement, t he sub -contractor is 
an agent of the Contractor.   
 
AUTONOMY  
22. Except as otherwise provided in this Agreement, the Contractor will have full control 
over working time, methods, and decision -making in relation to the provision of the Services 
in accordanc e with the Agreement. The Contractor will work autonomously and not at the 
direction of the Client. However, the Contractor will be responsive to the reasonable needs 
and concerns of the Client.   
 
NO EXCLUSIVITY  
23. The Parties acknowledge that this Agree ment is non -exclusive and that either Party will 
be free, during and after the Term, to engage or contract with third parties for the provision 
of services similar to the Services.   
 INDEMNIFICATION  
24. Except to the extent paid in settlement from any app licable insurance policies, and to the 
extent permitted by applicable law, each Party agrees to indemnify and hold harmless the 
other Party, and its respective directors, shareholders, affiliates, officers, agents, employees, 
and permitted successors and a ssigns against any and all claims, losses, damages, liabilities, 
penalties, punitive damages, expenses, reasonable legal fees, and costs of any kind or 
amount whatsoever, which result from or arise out of any act or omission of the 
indemnifying party.   
MODIFICATION OF AGREEMENT  
25. Any amendment or modification of this Agreement or additional obligation assumed by 
either Party in connection with this Agreement will only be binding if evidenced in writing 
signed by each Party or an authorized representative  of each Party.   
 
ENTIRE AGREEMENT  
26. It is agreed that there is no representation, warranty, collateral agreement, or condition 
affecting this Agreement except as expressly provided in this Agreement.   
ENUREMENT  
27. This Agreement will enure to the ben efit of and be binding on the Parties and their 
respective heirs, executors, administrators and permitted successors and assigns.  
GENDER  
28. Words in the singular mean and include the plural and vice versa. Words in the 
masculine mean and include the femin ine and vice versa. A  
GOVERNING LAW  
29. This Agreement will be governed by and construed in accordance with the laws of Uttar 
Pradesh.  
WAIVER  
30. The waiver by either Party of a breach, default, delay or omission of any of the provisions 
of this Agreement by the other Party will not be construed as a waiver of any subsequent 
breach of the same or other provisions.  
 
IN WITNESS WHEREOF the parties have duly affixed their signature under hand and seal on 
this _________ day of ____________, ________.  
  
nexCRAFT                                                                                                              XXXXXXXX  
Name: ___________                                                                                          Name: 
______________  
Signature:                                                                                                             Signature: